Property which can be moved from one location to another
For other uses, see Personal property (disambiguation).
"Personal effects" redirects here. For the 2008 film, see Personal Effects (film).
Property law
Part of the common law series
Types
Real property
Personal property
Community property
Unowned property

Acquisition
Gift
Adverse possession
Deed
Conquest
Discovery
Accession
Lost, mislaid, and abandoned property
Treasure trove
Bailment
License
Alienation

Estates in land
Allodial title
Fee simple
Fee tail
Life estate
Defeasible estate
Future interest
remainder
Concurrent estate
Leasehold estate
Condominiums
Real estate
Land tenure

Conveyancing
Bona fide purchaser
Torrens title
Strata title
Deeds registration
Estoppel by deed
Quitclaim deed
Mortgage
Equitable conversion
Action to quiet title
Escheat

Future use control
Restraint on alienation
Rule against perpetuities
Rule in Shelley's Case
Doctrine of worthier title

Nonpossessory interest
Lien
Easement
Profit
Usufruct
Covenant
Equitable servitude

Related topics
Fixtures
Waste
Partition
Practicing without a license
Property rights
Mineral rights
Water rights
prior appropriation
riparian
Lateral and subjacent support
Assignment
Nemo dat
Quicquid plantatur
Conflict of property laws
Blackacre
Security deposit

Other common law areas
Contract law
Tort law
Wills, trusts and estates
Criminal law
Evidence

Higher category: Law and Common law
vte
Personal property is property that is movable.[1] In common law systems, personal property may also be called chattels or personalty. In civil law systems, personal property is often called movable property or movables—any property that can be moved from one location to another.
Personal property can be understood in comparison to real estate, immovable property or real property (such as land and buildings).
Movable property on land (larger livestock, for example) was not automatically sold with the land, it was "personal" to the owner and moved with the owner.
The word cattle is the Old Norman variant of Old French chatel, chattel (derived from Latin capitalis, “of the head”), which was once synonymous with general movable personal property.[2]


Classifications[edit]
Personal property may be classified in a variety of ways.

Intangible[edit]
Intangible personal property or "intangibles" refers to personal property that cannot actually be moved, touched or felt, but instead represents something of value such as negotiable instruments, securities, service (economics), and intangible assets including chose in action.

Tangible[edit]
Tangible personal property refers to any type of property that can generally be moved (i.e., it is not attached to real property or land), touched or felt. These generally include items such as furniture, clothing, jewelry, art, writings, or household goods. In some cases, there can be formal title documents that show the ownership and transfer rights of that property after a person's death (for example, motor vehicles, boats, etcetera) In many cases, however, tangible personal property will not be "titled" in an owner's name and is presumed to be whatever property he or she was in possession of at the time of his or her death.

Other distinctions[edit]
Accountants distinguish personal property from real property because personal property can be depreciated faster than improvements (while land is not depreciable at all). It is an owner's right to get tax benefits for chattel, and there are businesses that specialize in appraising personal property, or chattel.
The distinction between these types of property is significant for a variety of reasons. Usually one's rights on movables are more attenuated than one's rights on immovables (or real property). The statutes of limitations or prescriptive periods are usually shorter when dealing with personal or movable property. Real property rights are usually enforceable for a much longer period of time and in most jurisdictions real estate and immovables are registered in government-sanctioned land registers. In some jurisdictions, rights (such as a lien or other security interest) can be registered against personal or movable property.
In common law it is possible to place a mortgage upon real property. Such a mortgage requires payment or the owner of the mortgage can seek foreclosure. Personal property can often be secured with a similar kind of device, variously called a chattel mortgage, a trust receipt, or a security interest. In the United States, Article 9 of the Uniform Commercial Code governs the creation and enforcement of security interests in most (but not all) types of personal property.
There is no similar institution to the mortgage in the civil law, however a hypothec is a device to secure real rights against property. These real rights follow the property along with the ownership. In common law a lien also remains on the property and it is not extinguished by alienation of the property; liens may be real or equitable.
Many jurisdictions levy a personal property tax, an annual tax on the privilege of owning or possessing personal property within the boundaries of the jurisdiction. Automobile and boat registration fees are a subset of this tax. Most household goods are exempt as long as they are kept or used within the household; the tax usually becomes a problem when the taxing authority discovers that expensive personal property like art is being regularly stored outside of the household.
The distinction between tangible and intangible personal property is also significant in some of the jurisdictions which impose sales taxes. In Canada, for example, provincial and federal sales taxes were imposed primarily on sales of tangible personal property whereas sales of intangibles tended to be exempt. The move to value added taxes, under which almost all transactions are taxable, has diminished the significance of the distinction.

Personal versus private property[edit]
In political/economic theory, notably socialist, Marxist, and many anarchist philosophies[citation needed], the distinction between private and personal property is an important one. Which items of property constitute personal versus private, is open to debate. In some economic systems, such as capitalism, private and personal property are considered to be of equal importance and significance without the need for making a distinction.[citation needed]

Personal property, or possessions, includes "items intended for personal use" (e.g., one's toothbrush, clothes, and vehicles, and rarely money).[3] It must be gained in a "fair" manner according to socialist doctrine. The owner has a distributive right to exclude others (i.e. the right to command a "fair share" of personal property).
Private property is a social relationship between the owner and persons deprived, i.e. not a relationship between person and thing. Private property may include artifacts, factories, mines, dams, infrastructure, natural vegetation, mountains, deserts and seas—these generate capital for the owner without the owner necessarily having to perform any physical labor. Conversely, those who perform labor using somebody else's private property are considered deprived of the value of their work in Marxist doctrine, and are instead given a salary that is disjointed from the value generated by the worker.[citation needed]
In Marxist theory, private property typically refers to capital or the means of production, while personal property refers to consumer and non-capital goods and services.[4][5]
See also[edit]

Law portal
Chattel house
Communal property
Jus relictae
Secured transaction
State property
Trespass to chattels
References[edit]


^ Palgrave, Robert Harry Inglis (1908). "Personal property". Dictionary of political economy. Vol. 3. p. 96.

^ "Origin of chattel". Archived from the original on 14 August 2009. Retrieved August 15, 2009.

^ Friedland, William H.; Rosberg, Carl G. (1965). African Socialism. Stanford University Press. p. 25. ISBN 978-0804702034.

^ "B.3 Why are anarchists against private property? - Anarchist Writers". anarchism.pageabode.com. Archived from the original on 14 November 2017. Retrieved 29 April 2018.

^ "End Private Property, Not Kenny Loggins". Jacobin. Archived from the original on 26 October 2017. Retrieved 29 April 2018.


External links[edit]



Wikiquote has quotations related to Personal property.




Look up personal property in Wiktionary, the free dictionary.

Australia Personal Property Securities Act 2009
Personal Property Securities Register Australia
United States Tax Convention with the Kingdom of Morocco 1977
"Chattel" . Encyclopædia Britannica. Vol. 6 (11th ed.). 1911. p. 9.
vteMedium of exchangeCommodity money
Axe-money (W. Mesoamerica & N. Andes)
Cocoa bean (Mesoamerica)
Fanery (Madagascar)
Koku (rice)
Manilla (W. Africa)
Precious metals
Quachtli (cotton cloth)
Rai stones (Micronesia)
Ramen noodles (US prisons)
Salt (Roman world)
Shekel (barley)
Shells
Trade bead
Domestic animals
Water buffalo (SE Asia)
Cow (Hindu)
Camel (Arabia)
Yak (Tibet, China)
Representative money
Bimetallism
Gold certificates


Money portalMoney(Fiat/Token)
Bailment
Banknote
Central bank digital currency
Chattel/movable property
Cheque
Clearing
Cheque clearing
Clay token
Coinage
Currency
Deposit
Deposit account
Legal tender
Notary
Possession
Promissory note
Redemption
Safekeeping
General
List of historical currencies
Barter
Coincidence of wants
Bureau de change
Central bank
Clearinghouse bank
Savings bank
Depository institution
Mint
Akkadian standards of measurement (c. 2150 BC)
Code of Hammurabi (§100; §122–125; c. 1750 BC)
Commodity theory of money (Metallism)
Credit theory of money
Chartalism
Quantity theory of money
Monetarism
Market monetarism
Standard of deferred payment
Store of value
Unit of account
Digital currency
Cryptocurrency
Digital gold currency
Virtual currency
Local currency
Complementary currency
Sectoral currency
Time-based currency

vtePropertyBy owner
Collective
Common
Communal
Community
Crown
Customary
Cooperative
Private
Public
Self
Social
State
Unowned
By nature
Estate
Croft
Intangible
Intellectual
indigenous
Personal
Tangible
real
Commons
Common land
Common-pool resource
Digital
Global
Information
Knowledge
Theory
Bundle of rights
Commodity
fictitious commodities
Common good (economics)
Excludability
First possession
appropriation
homestead principle
Free-rider problem
Game theory
Georgism
Gift economy
Labor theory of property
Law of rent
rent-seeking
Legal plunder
Natural rights
Ownership
Property rights
primogeniture
usufruct
women's
Right to property
Rivalry
Tragedy of the commons
anticommons
Applications
Acequia (watercourse)
Ejido (agrarian land)
Forest types
Huerta
Inheritance
Land tenure
Property law
alienation
easement
restraint on alienation
real estate
title
Rights
Air
Fishing
Forest-dwelling (India)
Freedom to roam
Grazing
pannage
Hunting
Land
aboriginal
indigenous
squatting
Littoral
Mineral
Bergregal
Right of way
Water
prior-appropriation
riparian
Disposession/redistribution
Bioprospecting
Collectivization
Eminent domain
Enclosure
Eviction
Expropriation
Farhud
Forced migration
population transfer
Illegal fishing
Illegal logging
Land reform
Legal plunder
Piracy
Poaching
Primitive accumulation
Privatization
Regulatory taking
Slavery
bride buying
human trafficking
spousal
husband-selling
wife selling
wage
Tax
inheritance
poll
progressive
property
Theft
Scholars(key work)
Frédéric Bastiat
The Law
Ronald Coase
Friedrich Engels
The Origin of the Family, Private Property and the State
Henry George
Progress and Poverty
Garrett Hardin
David Harvey
John Locke
Two Treatises of Government
Karl Marx
Das Kapital
Marcel Mauss
The Gift
John Stuart Mill
Elinor Ostrom
Karl Polanyi
The Great Transformation
Pierre-Joseph Proudhon
What Is Property?
David Ricardo
Murray N. Rothbard
The Ethics of Liberty
Jean-Jacques Rousseau
The Social Contract
Adam Smith
The Wealth of Nations

 Categories:  Property
Property law
by country

Authority control National libraries
Czech Republic
Other
NARA




