Legal order to stop doing something
For protection orders (family law and harassment), see Protection order.


Equitable doctrines
Doctrines
Equitable conversion
Estoppel
Hotchpot
Knowing receipt
Laches
Marshalling
Unconscionability
Undue influence
Subrogation

Defences
Bona fide purchaser
Clean hands

Equitable remedies
Account of profits
Constructive trust
Declaratory relief
Injunction
Rectification
Rescission
Specific performance
Tracing

Related
Court of Chancery
Equitable interest
History of equity
Maxims of equity
Trust law
vte
An injunction is a legal and equitable remedy in the form of a special court order that compels a party to do or refrain from specific acts.[1] "When a court employs the extraordinary remedy of injunction, it directs the conduct of a party, and does so with the backing of its full coercive powers."[2] A party that fails to comply with an injunction faces criminal or civil penalties, including possible monetary sanctions and even imprisonment. They can also be charged with contempt of court. Counterinjunctions are injunctions that stop or reverse the enforcement of another injunction.


Rationale[edit]
The injunction is an equitable remedy,[3] that is, a remedy that originated in the English courts of equity. Like other equitable remedies, it has traditionally been given when a wrong cannot be effectively remedied by an award of money damages. (The doctrine that reflects this is the requirement that an injunction can be given only when there is "no adequate remedy at law.") Injunctions are intended to make whole again someone whose rights have been violated. Nevertheless, when deciding whether to grant an injunction, courts also take into account the interests of non-parties (that is, the public interest). When deciding whether to give an injunction, and deciding what its scope should be, courts give special attention to questions of fairness and good faith. One manifestation of this is that injunctions are subject to equitable defenses, such as laches and unclean hands.[4]
Injunctions are given in many different kinds of cases. They can prohibit future violations of the law, such as trespass to real property, infringement of a patent, or the violation of a constitutional right (e.g., the free exercise of religion). Or they can require the defendant to repair past violations of the law.
An injunction can require someone to do something, like clean up an oil spill or remove a spite fence. Or it can prohibit someone from doing something, like using an illegally obtained trade secret. An injunction that requires conduct is called a "mandatory injunction." An injunction that prohibits conduct is called a "prohibitory injunction."[5] Many injunctions are both—that is, they have both mandatory and prohibitory components, because they require some conduct and forbid other conduct.
When an injunction is given, it can be enforced with equitable enforcement mechanisms such as contempt.[6] It can also be modified or dissolved (upon a proper motion to the court) if circumstances change in the future.[7] These features of the injunction allow a court granting one to manage the behavior of the parties. That is the most important distinction between the injunction and another non-monetary remedy in American law, the declaratory judgment.[8] Another way these two remedies are distinguished is that the declaratory judgment is sometimes available at an earlier point in a dispute than the injunction.[8]

Worldwide[edit]
Australia[edit]
In the state of New South Wales, a court may grant an apprehended violence order (AVO) to a person who fears violence, harassment, abuse, or stalking.[9] The order prohibits the defendant from assaulting, harassing, threatening, stalking, or intimidating the person seeking the order. Other conditions may be included, such as a prohibition against contacting the person or attempting to find the person online.[10] A court may issue the order if it believes a person has reasonable grounds for their fears or has no reasonable grounds for their fears. Non-compliance may result in the imposition of a fine, imprisonment, or both, and deportation.

Turkey[edit]
Interim injunctions are a provisional form of injunctive relief, which can compel a party to do something (mandatory injunction) or stop it from doing something (prohibitory injunction).[11]
A plaintiff seeking an interim injunction must establish that he is likely to succeed on the merits, that he is likely to suffer severe harm in the absence of preliminary relief, and that an injunction is in the public interest.[12]
In Turkish law, interim injunction is an extraordinary remedy that is never awarded as of right. In each case, courts balance the competing claims of injury and consider the likely hardship on the defendant.[11]

United States[edit]
History[edit]
Injunctions have been especially important at two moments in American history.
First, in the late nineteenth and early twentieth century, federal courts used injunctions to break strikes by unions. For example, after the United States government successfully used an injunction to outlaw the Pullman boycott in 1894 in In re Debs, employers found that they could obtain federal court injunctions to ban strikes and organizing activities of all kinds by unions. These injunctions were often extremely broad; one injunction issued by a federal court in the 1920s effectively barred the United Mine Workers of America from talking to workers who had signed yellow dog contracts with their employers. Unable to limit what they called "government by injunction" in the courts, labor and its allies persuaded the United States Congress in 1932 to pass the Norris-LaGuardia Act, which imposed so many procedural and substantive limits on the federal courts' power to issue injunctions that it effectively prohibited federal court from issuing injunctions in cases arising out of labor disputes. A number of states followed suit and enacted "Little Norris-LaGuardia Acts" that imposed similar limitations on state courts' powers. The courts have since recognized a limited exception to the Norris-LaGuardia Act's strict limitations in those cases in which a party seeks injunctive relief to enforce the grievance arbitration provisions of a collective bargaining agreement.
Second, injunctions were crucial to the second half of the twentieth century in the desegregation of American schools. Federal courts gave injunctions that carried out the command of Brown v Board of Education to integrate public schools in the United States, and at times courts took over the management of public schools in order to ensure compliance. (An injunction that puts a court in the position of taking over and administering an institution—such as a school, a prison, or a hospital—is often called a "structural injunction".)
Injunctions remain widely used to require government officials to comply with the Constitution, and they are also frequently used in private law disputes about intellectual property, real property, and contracts. Many state and federal statutes, including environmental statutes, civil rights statutes and employment-discrimination statutes, are enforced with injunctions.

Forms[edit]
Injunctions in the United States tend to come in three main forms, temporary injunctions, preliminary injunctions and permanent injunctions.[13] For both temporary restraining orders and preliminary injunctions, the goal is usually to preserve the status quo until the court is able to decide the case.

Temporary restraining orders[edit]
A special kind of injunction that may be issued before trial is called a "temporary restraining order" or TRO. A TRO may be issued without notice to the other party or a hearing. A TRO will be given only for a short period of time before a court can schedule a hearing at which the restrained person may appear and contest the order. If the TRO is contested, the court must decide whether to issue a preliminary injunction. Temporary restraining orders are often, but not exclusively, given to prevent domestic violence, stalking, sexual assault, or harassment.

Preliminary injunctions[edit]
Preliminary injunctions are given before trial. Because they are issued at an early stage, before the court has heard the evidence and made a decision in the case, they are more rarely given. The requirements for a preliminary injunction tend to be the same as for a permanent injunction, with the additional requirement that the party asking for the injunction is likely to succeed on the merits.[14]

Permanent injunctions[edit]
Permanent injunctions are issued after trial. Different federal and state courts sometimes have slightly different requirements for obtaining a permanent injunction. The Supreme Court enumerated the traditional four-factor test in eBay Inc. v. MercExchange, L.L.C. as:[15][16]

the plaintiff has suffered irreparable injury;
remedies available at law are inadequate to compensate that injury;
considering the balance of hardships between the plaintiff and defendant, a remedy in equity is warranted; and
the public interest would not be disserved by an injunction.
The balance of hardships inquiry is also sometimes called the "undue hardship defense".[17] A stay pending appeal is a mechanism allowing a losing party to delay enforcement of an injunction while appeal is pending after final judgment has been granted by a lower court.[18]: 871 

Antitrust[edit]
The DOJ and the FTC have investigated patent holders in the United States for seeking preliminary injunctions against accused infringers of standard-essential patents, or patents that the patent holder must license on reasonable and non-discriminatory terms.[19] There is an ongoing debate among legal and economic scholars with major implications for antitrust policy in the United States as well as in other countries over the statutory limits to the patent holder's right to seek and obtain injunctive relief against infringers of standard-essential patents.[20] Citing concerns of the absence of competition facing the patent holder once its technology is locked-in to the standard, some scholars argue that the holder of a standard-essential patent should face antitrust liability when seeking an injunction against an implementer of a standard.[21] Other scholars assert that patent holders are not contractually restrained from pursuing injunctions for standard-essential patent claims and that patent law is already capable of determining whether an injunction against an infringer of standard-essential patents will impose a net cost on consumers, thus obviating the role of antitrust enforcement.[22]

United Kingdom[edit]
Interim injunctions[edit]
Interim injunctions or interim orders are granted as a means of providing interim relief while a case is being heard, to prevent actions being implemented which potentially may be barred by a final ruling.[23]

Super-injunctions[edit]
See also: 2011 British privacy injunctions controversy, Super-injunctions in English law, and Interdicts in Scots law
In England and Wales, injunctions whose existence and details may not be legally reported, in addition to facts or allegations which may not be disclosed, have been issued; they have been informally dubbed "super-injunctions".[24][25]
An example was the super-injunction raised in September 2009 by Carter-Ruck solicitors on behalf of oil trader Trafigura, prohibiting the reporting of an internal Trafigura report into the 2006 Ivory Coast toxic waste dump scandal. The existence of the super-injunction was revealed only when it was referred to in a parliamentary question that was subsequently circulated on the Internet (parliamentary privilege protects statements by MPs in Parliament which would otherwise be held to be in contempt of court). Before it could be challenged in court, the injunction was varied to permit reporting of the question.[26] By long legal tradition, parliamentary proceedings may be reported without restriction.[27] Parliamentary proceedings are covered by absolute privilege, but the reporting of those proceedings in newspapers is only covered by qualified privilege. Another example of the use of a super-injunction was in a libel case in which a plaintiff who claimed he was defamed by family members in a dispute over a multimillion-pound family trust obtained anonymity for himself and for his relatives.[28]
Roy Greenslade credits the former editor of The Guardian, Alan Rusbridger, with coining the word "super-injunction" in an article about the Trafigura affair in September 2009.[29]
The term "hyper-injunction" has also been used to describe an injunction similar to a super-injunction but also including an order that the injunction must not be discussed with members of Parliament, journalists, or lawyers. One known hyper-injunction was obtained at the High Court in 2006, preventing its subject from saying that paint used in water tanks on passenger ships can break down and release potentially toxic chemicals.[30] This example became public knowledge in Parliament under parliamentary privilege.[31]
By May 2011, Private Eye claimed to be aware of 53 super-injunctions and anonymised privacy injunctions,[32] though Lord Neuberger's report into the use of super-injunctions revealed that only two super-injunctions had been granted since January 2010. Many media sources were wrongly describing all gagging orders as super-injunctions.[33] The widespread media coverage of super-injunctions led to a drop in numbers after 2011; however four were granted in the first five months of 2015.[34]

European Union[edit]
Dynamic Injunction[edit]
Injunctions defined by the European Commission as injunctions which can be issued for instance in cases in which materially the same website becomes available immediately after issuing the injunction with a different IP address or URL and which is drafted in a way that allows to also cover the new IP address or URL without the need for a new judicial procedure to obtain a new injunction.[35]
Live Blocking Injunction[edit]
An injunction described by the European Commission as allowing the repeated blocking of a website every time a live broadcast is in progress. These injunctions are generally used during live sporting events.[35]

See also[edit]
Anti-social behaviour order – Type of civil order made in the United Kingdom
Anti-suit injunction – Order to restrain parallel action
Anti-Injunction Act – US federal statute (28 U.S.C. § 2283)
Asset freezing – Legal process preventing a defendant from moving their assets beyond a court's jurisdiction (Mareva injunction)
Burden of proof (law) – In law, the obligation on a party in a trial to produce evidence
Civil law (common law) – Body of law that relates to social behavior, rights and duties, and property of persons
Court of equity – Court authorized to apply principles of equity to cases
Cross-border injunction – Injunction with pan-EU effect
Declaratory judgment – Legal determination of a court
Equity (law) – Set of legal principles supplementing but distinct from the Common Law
Estrepement – Type of damage to rented property
Gang injunction – Collective restraining order in US law
Injunctions in English law – An insight to the equitable remedy in English law: injunctions.
Interim order – Order issued while litigation is pending
Lawburrows – Type of protective order (Scots law)
Lawsuit – Civil action brought in a court of law
National security letter – US government administrative subpoena
Petition for stay – Action to stop decision of a lower court
Peace bond – Good behaviour order (Canadian law)
Restraining order – Legal order prohibiting certain entities from specified actions
Quia timet – Action to restrain wrongful acts which are threatened or imminent
Standing (law) – Legal concept concerning a party's connection to or harm from a law or action being challenged
Stay of proceedings – Ruling halting further legal process
Streisand effect – Phenomenon that attempting to hide information attracts more attention to it
References[edit]


^ 28 U.S.C. § 2342 ("The court of appeals ... has exclusive jurisdiction to enjoin, set aside, suspend (in whole or in part), or to determine the validity of...."); 8 U.S.C. § 1252(f) ("Limit on injunctive relief'); Jennings v. Rodriguez, 583 U.S. ___, ___, 138 S.Ct. 830, 851 (2018); Wheaton College v. Burwell, 134 S.Ct. 2806, 2810-11 (2014) ("Under our precedents, an injunction is appropriate only if (1) it is necessary or appropriate in aid of our jurisdiction, and (2) the legal rights at issue are indisputably clear.") (internal quotation marks and brackets omitted); Lux v. Rodrigues, 561 U.S. 1306, 1308 (2010); Correctional Services Corp. v. Malesko, 534 U.S. 61, 74 (2001) (stating that "injunctive relief has long been recognized as the proper means for preventing entities from acting unconstitutionally."); Nken v. Holder, 556 U.S. 418 (2009); see also Alli v. Decker, 650 F.3d 1007, 1011 (3d Cir. 2011); Andreiu v. Ashcroft, 253 F.3d 477, 482-85 (9th Cir. 2001) (en banc).

^ Nken v. Holder, 556 U.S. 418, 428 (2009) (citation and internal quotation marks omitted).

^ Weinberger v. Romero-Barcelo, 456 U.S. 305, 311 (1982).

^ Bray, Samuel (2014). "A Little Bit of Laches Goes a Long Way: Notes on Petrella v. Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, Inc". Vanderbilt Law Review En Banc. 67: 1. SSRN 2376080.

^ Dobbs, Dan (1993). Law of Remedies: Damages—Equity—Restitution (2 ed.). St. Paul, Minnesota: West Publishing Co. p. 224. ISBN 0-314-00913-2.

^ International Union, United Mine Workers of America v. Bagwell, 512 U.S. 821 (1994).

^ Jost, Timothy Stoltzfus (1986). "From Swift to Stotts and Beyond: Modification of Injunctions in the Federal Courts". Texas Law Review. 64: 1101.

^ a b Bray, Samuel (2014). "The Myth of the Mild Declaratory Judgment". Duke Law Journal. 63: 1091. SSRN 2330050.

^ "New South Wales – Apprehended Violence Orders". National Council of Single Mothers and Their Children. Archived from the original on 11 February 2011. Retrieved 26 September 2010.

^ "Are you applying for an AVO?". Legal Aid New South Wales.

^ a b Zeldin, Wendy (30 December 2015). "Constitutional Court Rulings on "Reasonable Suspicion" in Criminal Procedure Code". loc.gov. Library of Congress. Retrieved 28 December 2020.

^ Baysal, Pelin (3 January 2019). "Litigation and enforcement in Turkey: overview". Westlaw. Retrieved 28 December 2020.

^ "Understanding Injunctions". Insights. American Bar Association. Winter 2014. Retrieved 6 September 2017.

^ "Winter v. Natural Resources Defense Council, Inc., 555 U.S. 7 (2008)". Google Scholar. Retrieved 6 September 2017.

^ "eBay Inc. v. MercExchange, L.L.C., 547 U.S. 388 (2006)". Google Scholar. Retrieved 6 September 2017.

^ "A.W. Chesterton Co., Inc. v. Chesterton, 128 F.3d 1 (1st Cir. 1997)". Google Scholar. Retrieved 6 September 2017.

^ Laycock, Douglas (2012). "The Neglected Defense of Undue Hardship (and the Doctrinal Train Wreck in Boomer v. Atlantic Cement)". Journal of Tort Law. 4 (3): 1. doi:10.1515/1932-9148.1123. S2CID 155015267. SSRN 2040896.

^ Pedro, Portia (1 June 2018). "Stays". California Law Review. 106 (3): 869.

^ Press Release, U.S. Dep’t of Justice, Statement of the Department of Justice Antitrust Division on Its Decision to Close Its Investigation of Samsung’s Use of Its Standards-Essential Patents (7 Feb. 2014) [hereinafter DOJ Closes Its Samsung Investigation], available at http://www.justice.gov/atr/public/press_releases/2014/303547.pdf; Decision and Order § IV.D, Robert Bosch GmbH, No. C-4377 (F.T.C. 23 Apr. 2013).

^ J. Gregory Sidak, Injunctive Relief and the FRAND Commitment in the United States at 16, forthcoming in 1 Cambridge Handbook of Technical Standardization Law: Antitrust and Patents (Jorge L. Contreras ed., Cambridge Univ. Press 2017), https://www.criterioneconomics.com/injunctive-relief-and-the-frand-commitment-in-the-united-states.html.

^ Joseph Farrell, John Hayes, Carl Shapiro & Theresa Sullivan, Standard Setting, Patents, and Hold-Up, 74 ANTITRUST L.J. 603 (2007); Jorge L. Contreras, Fixing FRAND: A Pseudo-Pool Approach to Standards-Based Patent Licensing, 79 ANTITRUST L.J. 47 (2013).

^ J. Gregory Sidak, The Meaning of FRAND, Part II: Injunctions, 11 J. COMP L. & ECON 201 (2015), https://www.criterioneconomics.com/meaning-of-frand-injunctions-for-standard-essential-patents.html.

^ England and Wales Court of Appeal (Civil Division), Willis Ltd & Anor v Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group Plc & Ors, 2015, EWCA Civ 450 (22 April 2015)

^ Press Gazette, 14 October 2009, MPs slam 'super injunction' which gagged Guardian Archived 16 June 2011 at the Wayback Machine

^ Robinson, James (13 October 2009). "How super-injunctions are used to gag investigative reporting". The Guardian. London.

^ "House of Commons Hansard Debates for 17 Mar 2011". Parliament of the United Kingdom. 17 March 2011.

^ "Trafigura drops bid to gag Guardian over MP's question", The Guardian, 13 October 2009.

^ Leigh, David (29 March 2011). "Superinjunction scores legal first for nameless financier in libel action". The Guardian. London. Retrieved 3 April 2011.

^ Greenslade, Roy (20 April 2011). "Law is badly in need of reform as celebrities hide secrets". Evening Standard. London. Archived from the original on 24 April 2011. Retrieved 30 April 2011.

^ Swinford, Steven (21 March 2011). "'Hyper-injunction' stops you talking to MP". The Daily Telegraph. London. Archived from the original on 12 January 2022.

^ Tim Dowling (21 March 2011). "Got secrets you want to keep? Get a hyper-injunction". The Guardian. London.

^ "Number crunching". Private Eye. Pressdram Ltd. 1288: 5. 2011.

^ "Media concession made in injunction report". BBC News. 20 May 2011. Retrieved 20 May 2011.

^ "A Philosophical Conundrum". Private Eye. Pressdram Ltd. 1393: 9. 2015.

^ a b "EUR-Lex - 52017DC0708 - EN - EUR-Lex". eur-lex.europa.eu. Retrieved 12 May 2021.


External links[edit]



Look up injunction in Wiktionary, the free dictionary.

On the Difference Between Lawsuit, a Restraining Order, and an Injunction
Authority control: National libraries 
Germany
Israel
United States




