Writing computer programs with networking capability
This article relies largely or entirely on a single source. Relevant discussion may be found on the talk page. Please help improve this article by introducing  citations to additional sources.Find sources: "Computer network programming" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (June 2013)
For similar terms referring to the hardware technologies committed to computer network programming, see Computer network.
Computer network programming involves writing computer programs that enable processes to communicate with each other across a computer network.[1]


Connection-oriented and connectionless communications[edit]
Very generally, most of communications can be divided into connection-oriented, and connectionless. Whether a communication is connection-oriented or connectionless, is defined by the communication protocol, and not by application programming interface (API). Examples of the connection-oriented protocols include Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) and Sequenced Packet Exchange (SPX), and examples of connectionless protocols include User Datagram Protocol (UDP), "raw IP", and Internetwork Packet Exchange (IPX).

Clients and servers[edit]
Main article: client–server model
For connection-oriented communications, communication parties usually have different roles. One party is usually waiting for incoming connections; this party is usually referred to as "server". Another party is the one which initiates connection; this party is usually referred to as "client".
For connectionless communications, one party ("server") is usually waiting for an incoming packet, and another party ("client") is usually understood as the one which sends an unsolicited packet to "server".

Popular protocols and APIs[edit]
Network programming traditionally covers different layers of OSI/ISO model (most of application-level programming belongs to L4 and up). The table below contains some examples of popular protocols belonging to different OSI/ISO layers, and popular APIs for them.



OSI/ISO Layer

Protocol

API


L3 (network)

IP

Raw socket


L4 (transport)

TCP, UDP, SCTP

Berkeley Sockets


L5 (session)

TLS

OpenSSL


L7 (application)

HTTP

Various

See also[edit]
Software-defined networking
Infrastructure as code
Site reliability engineering
DevOps
References[edit]
W. Richard Stevens: UNIX Network Programming, Volume 1, Second Edition: Networking APIs: Sockets and XTI, Prentice Hall, 1998, ISBN 0-13-490012-X


^ "Chapter 12 - Network Programming". COMP1406 (PDF). 2017. Archived from the original (PDF) on 2020-03-05. Network Programming involves writing programs that communicate with other programs across a computer network.





