This article includes a list of general references, but it lacks sufficient corresponding inline citations. Please help to improve this article by introducing more precise citations. (December 2014) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
Web indexing, or internet indexing, comprises methods for indexing the contents of a website or of the Internet as a whole. Individual websites or intranets may use a back-of-the-book index, while search engines usually use keywords and metadata to provide a more useful vocabulary for Internet or onsite searching. With the increase in the number of periodicals that have articles online, web indexing is also becoming important for periodical websites.[1]
Back-of-the-book-style web indexes may be called "web site A-Z indexes".[2] The implication with "A-Z" is that there is an alphabetical browse view or interface. This interface differs from that of a browse through layers of hierarchical categories (also known as a taxonomy) which are not necessarily alphabetical, but are also found on some web sites. Although an A-Z index could be used to index multiple sites, rather than the multiple pages of a single site, this is unusual.
Metadata web indexing involves assigning keywords, description or phrases to web pages or web sites within a metadata tag (or "meta-tag") field, so that the web page or web site can be retrieved with a list. This method is commonly used by search engine indexing.[3]

See also[edit]
Automatic indexing
Information architecture
Search engine optimization
On-page Optimization
Google Webmaster
Site map
Web navigation
Web search engine
Information retrieval
Further reading[edit]
Beyond Book Indexing: How to Get Started in Web Indexing, Embedded Indexing, and Other Computer-Based Media, edited by Marilyn Rowland and Diane Brenner, American Society of Indexers, Info Today, Inc, NJ, 2000, ISBN 1-57387-081-1
An example of an Internet Index A-Z
vteInternet searchTypes
Web search engine (List)
Metasearch engine
Multimedia search
Collaborative search engine
Cross-language search
Local search
Vertical search
Social search
Image search
Audio search
Video search engine
Enterprise search
Semantic search
Natural language search engine
Voice search
Tools
Search by sound
Search engine marketing
Search engine optimization
Evaluation measures
Search oriented architecture
Selection-based search
Document retrieval
Text mining
Web crawler
Multisearch
Federated search
Search aggregator
Index/Web indexing
Focused crawler
Spider trap
Robots exclusion standard
Distributed web crawling
Web archiving
Website mirroring software
Web query
Web query classification
Protocolsand standards
Z39.50
Search/Retrieve Web Service
Search/Retrieve via URL
OpenSearch
Representational State Transfer
Website Parse Template
Wide area information server
See also
Search engine
Desktop search
Online search

References[edit]


^ "Web Crawlers:Indexing the Web".

^ Kundu, Malay Kumar; Mohapatra, Durga Prasad; Konar, Amit; Chakraborty, Aruna (2014-05-26). Advanced Computing, Networking and Informatics- Volume 1: Advanced Computing and Informatics Proceedings of the Second International Conference on Advanced Computing, Networking and Informatics (ICACNI-2014). Springer. ISBN 9783319073538.

^ "Indexing the Web | American Society for Indexing". www.asindexing.org. Retrieved 2015-11-25.




This Internet-related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.vte



