Content provided by a website
 A screenshot of a web page on Wikipedia containing the Droste effect.
A web page (or webpage) is a hypertext document on the World Wide Web. Web pages are delivered by a web server to the user and displayed in a web[1] browser.[1] A website consists of many web pages linked together under a common domain name. The name "web page" is a metaphor of paper pages bound together into a book.


Elements[edit]
The core element of a web page is a text file written in the HyperText Markup Language (HTML)[2] that describes the content of the web page and includes references to other web resources. A web page is a structured document that primarily consists of hypertext, text with hyperlinks. Hyperlinks point the user to other web resources, primarily other web pages, and to different sections of the same web page. Multimedia content on the web, such as images, videos, and other web pages, can be directly embedded in a web page to form a compound document.
An HTML document can include Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) documents to describe the presentation of content on a web page. It can also include JavaScript or WebAssembly programs, which are executed by the web browser to add dynamic behavior to the web page.[2][3] Web pages with dynamic behavior can function as application software, referred to as web applications.

Navigation[edit]
Main article: Web navigation
Each web page is identified by a distinct Uniform Resource Locator (URL). When the user inputs the URL for a web page into their browser, the browser downloads an HTML file from a web server and transforms all of its elements into an interactive visual representation on the user's device.[4]
If the user clicks, taps, or otherwise activates a hyperlink, the browser repeats this process to load the page pointed to by the hyperlink, which could be part of the current website or a different one. The browser has user interface features that indicate which page is displayed.

Deployment[edit]
From the perspective of server-side website deployment, there are two types of web pages: static and dynamic. Static pages are retrieved from the web server's file system without any modification,[5] while dynamic pages must be created by the server on the fly, typically reading from a database to fill out a template, before being sent to the user's browser.[6]

See also[edit]
Single-page application
Progressive web application
Web Components
References[edit]


^ a b "Web page - definition of web page by The Free Dictionary". Retrieved 23 April 2021.

^ a b Flanagan, David. JavaScript - The definitive guide (6 ed.). p. 1. JavaScript is part of the triad of technologies that all Web developers must learn: HTML to specify the content of web pages, CSS to specify the presentation of web pages and JavaScript to specify the behaviour of web pages.

^ "Introduction to WebAssembly 1.1". webassembly.github.io.

^ "Behind the scenes of modern web browsers". Tali Garsiel. Retrieved 2018-04-21.

^ Melendez, Steven (10 August 2018). "The Difference Between Dynamic & Static Web Pages". Chron. Archived from the original on 20 March 2019. Retrieved 20 March 2019. Static by definition means something that does not change. The first pages on the World Wide Web were largely static and unchanged, delivering the same information about a particular topic to anyone who visited. In some cases, sites may evolve slightly over time but are still largely static, meaning that they only change when manually changed by their creators, not on a regular and automated basis. 

^ "Definition of: dynamic Web page". PC Magazine. Archived from the original on 17 January 2017. Retrieved 20 March 2019. A Web page that provides custom content for the user based on the results of a search or some other request.


vteWeb interfacesServer-sideProtocols
HTTP
v2
v3
Encryption
WebDAV
CGI
SCGI
FCGI
AJP
WSRP
WebSocket
Server APIs
C NSAPI
C ASAPI
C ISAPI
COM ASP
Jakarta Servlet
container
CLI OWIN
ASP.NET Handler
Python WSGI
Python ASGI
Ruby Rack
JavaScript JSGI
Perl PSGI
Portlet
container
Apache modules
mod_include
mod_jk
mod_lisp
mod_mono
mod_parrot
mod_perl
mod_php
mod_proxy
mod_python
mod_wsgi
mod_ruby
Phusion Passenger
Topics
Web resource vs. Web service
Open API
Webhook
Application server
comparison
Scripting
Client-sideBrowser APIs
C NPAPI
LiveConnect
XPConnect
C NPRuntime
C PPAPI
NaCl
ActiveX
BHO
XBAP
Web APIsW3C
Audio
Canvas
CORS
DOM
DOM events
EME
File
Geolocation
IndexedDB
MSE
SSE
SVG
Video
WebAssembly
WebAuthn
WebGPU
WebRTC
WebSocket
WebXR
Web messaging
Web storage
Web worker
XMLHttpRequest
Khronos
WebCL
WebGL
Others
Gears
Web SQL Database (formerly W3C)
WebUSB
Topics
Ajax and Remote scripting vs. DHTML
Browser extension
Mashup
Web IDL
Scripting
Topics
Web page
Static
Dynamic
Web standards
Web API security
Web application
Rich
Single-page
Progressive
Web framework

Authority control: National libraries 
Germany
Czech Republic




